---
date: 2017-06-11
category: week2
---

#### Completed authentication handler
I think that the authentication handling code can now be considered completed. Since the last update I:

{:.details}
- Added an HeadlessClient class, which extends the [AbstractClient](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/Terasology/blob/develop/engine/src/main/java/org/terasology/network/internal/AbstractClient.java) class defined in the engine and has the puropse to represent clients connected via the web-based API; it is instantiated as soon as the authentication is completed. By using certain helper methods already present in AbstractClient, HeadlessClient will take care of registering these clients with the engine's entity manager. This is necessary to allow the clients to actually interact with the engine, for example to be notified of events, like chat or console messages.
- Improved the previously written code to manage the authentication handshake to send a server verification signature (a piece of data already known by both the client and the server signed with the server private certificate) upon succesfull authentication of the client, to allow the client to optionally verify the server's identity using the server public certificate and optionally disconnect if the verification fails. I added this since the same action is made during the authentication of real clients.

This code is available on the [authentication](https://github.com/gianluca-nitti/FacadeServer/commits/authentication) branch; I will open a pull request for it as soon as the [previous one](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/1){:.gh-pr} is reviewed.

In the meanwhile, I also stubbed some code to manage the resources which will be accessible to an authenticated client (or maybe even to a non-authenticated one with the proper restrictions). At the moment it's as simple as three interfaces: WritableResource (client can send data to resources implementing this, like a new chat message or configuration value), ReadableResource (client can get "on-demand" data, e.g. after requesting it, from this kind of resources; for example, this could be used to provide read access to configuration values), and ObservableResource (this type of resources emit events and the client receives the event data, without performing any request - possible thanks to WebSocket).
