---
date: 2017-06-22
category: week4
---

#### Implemented read-only anonymous access to resources and improved error handling
As said at the end of the previous post, in the last few days I wrote the code to allow unauthenticated clients to get read-only access to some resources. So, for example, a list of the currently online players on the server can be obtained by simply sending an HTTP GET request to `http://server-address/http/resources/onlinePlayers` and you'll get a JSON array containing the player list, without having to perform the authentication process which would involve identifying with a client identity certificate with a few more requests which, if the identity is correctly verified, would provide the client with the token to perform authenticated requests. Obviously, this is still necessary to perform actions which have effects on the server, for example running console commands, but since there are informations (like, as said, connected players, server metadata, etc) which can be made publicly available I thought that allowing anonymous access to them was handy.

The example above uses HTTP, but access via WebSocket is available as well. In this case, once a WebSocket client is connected, it will immediately start receiving "public" events (like notifications when a player connects) and is allowed to perform read requests to resources. Then, it can perform authentication at any time to obtain write access and subscribe to "private" notifications (like chat messages sent - or "whispered" - only to the player identified by the client identity that the WebSocket client used to authenticate).

A limitation is that event notifications for anonymous clients (for example public chat messages) are available via WebSocket but not via HTTP. This is because for HTTP, events are put in a per-client queue which is emptied when the client requests a certain endpoint to receive the pending events which happened since the previous request; this is possible for authenticated clients which are identified by a secret session token and thus are the only ones that can empty their queue, but not for anonymous clients. For example, we can consider the following situation: there are two anonymous clients, `A` and `B`, which query the event endpoint every 5 seconds. `A` starts querying it and is notified of an event `X` and plans to repeat the request after 5 seconds; a second later an event `Y` happens and `B` requests the event queue: `B` is notified of `Y`, but also empties the queue, which means that `A` won't aknowledge `Y`. Thus, it wouldn't make sense to have a publicly shared event queue managed in this way because not all clients would be notified of all events.
If this feature is necessary or useful, I could later consider alternative ways of implementing it, for example keeping a fixed number of recent events in the public queue and avoid emptying it on each request.

All the code is on the `resources` branch, which is now the [Pull Request #3](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/3){:.gh-pr} (by the way, [PR #2](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/FacadeServer/pull/2){:.gh-pr} has been recently merged). At the moment, my focus is to start the development a browser-based frontend with basic functionality (like showing connected players list, allowing authentication and console usage).
